
1. Transformed the NZ and INDIA data of the organization into tables and adjust the cell size according to the values.
2. Changed the table names for enhanced readability, simplification of formulas, and provides dynamic adaptability.
3. Added total row at the end and implemented average and sum function with dollar sign.
4. Applied date format to some vlaues which are in number type into date type.
5. Opened the NZ staff table in power query and add a column "Country" with "NZ" values. Same implementation for INDIA staff table.
6. Appended both queries into a new query and name it "Staff".
7. Removed duplicate values using Name column.
8. Replaced null values to other in Gender column.
9. Removed rows with null values.
10. Created connection to queries and then loaded the staff query into fresh spreadsheet as a table.
11. Opened the staff query in power query again and changed the date joined type to date.
12. Calculated values in section 1 using formulas.
13. Applied XLOOKUP in Section 2 to find the employee records.
14. Applied Transpose function to diplay the record in vertical.
15. Applied SORT, CHOOSECOLS, FILTER function in section 3 (info finder) to get the name, rating and the salary of employees from a department.
16. Used pivot table to build the comparison between male and female in section 4 (male vs female).
17. Applied a slicer to show the results according to countries.
18. Created a bonus column in the All STAFF spreadsheet using a formula. 
19. Performed salary distribution data analysis using histogram and box plot chart in salary spread tab. 
20. Used Pivot table to look into salary and rating relationship in salary vs rating tab.
21. Performed salary vs rating analysis using scatter plot.
22. Rating string values are converted to numberic values using maping table and rating as number column created using xlookup formula for scatter plot.
23. Analyzed company growth in relation to employees using pivot table and line chart.
24. Calculated running total of the company growth in terms of employees using formulas in tab "yearly hiring trend".
25. Created scorecard for employees of both countries to show comparison.