
Loading, cleaning and analysing employee data example.

1. Removed top 2 null rows.
2. Promoted the first row as header.
3. Undo the automatic data type changed by Power Query by deleting the particular step in applied steps query settings.
4. Replaced the NULL values to Other in Gender column.
5. Replaced NULL values to Engineering in Department column.
6. Removed null values in Salary column by unchecking it in the filter.
7. Extracted the country name from the Location column using "Column from examples" in the Add Column menu tab.
8. The above task have added the column with country names and set the column name "Country".
9. Close & Load in PQ Employee Data tab.
10. Performed data analysis using "Summarize with pivot table" in pivot Employee Data tab.
11. Edited the data query and extracted the year from the start date column after changing the data type to date.

Scraping web data example: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_states_in_India_by_past_population

1. Loaded the data in the Power query window using from other sources option in Get Data -> From Other Sources.
2. Removed top and bottom rows, as well as changed data type step.
3. Removed Rank column.
4. Selected State column and clicked Unpivot other columns.
5. Extracted year from the attribute column by using extract text between delimiters option.
6. Called the new columns Year and Population.
7. Addressed the N/A values in Population column by changing the column values to whole number type and then removed the errored values.
8. Close and load in PQ Wiki India Pop Data tab.

Consolidated .xlsx files to Power Query

1. Loaded the data by copying the folder path in whicht he files are situated and then selected from folder option in Get Data -> From File.
2. In Power Query navigator screen, selected combine and transform data option.
3. Replaced the first column in Power Query to Project and replaced the .xlsx value in every cell to empty string.
4. Used transform sample file in helper queries to add a custome column "Date" using a formula.
5. Close and Load.

Joining two or more tables - Merge and Append

1. Loaded the student and courses data from the .xlsx file and pressed transform data.
2. The above task loaded 3 queries because the data is in 3 different tabs.
3. Added custome column "Year" in Year 11 and Year 12 queries with formula ="Year 11" and ="Year 12" respectively.
4. Selected one query and then selected Append queries.
5. Renamed the query Students becasue now it has students from both years.
6. Selected Students query and then clicked merge query where selected courses table.
7. Selected Course column where merge would take place and then selected Join kind "Left outer".

Query Referencing: Filtering female students on 3 or more credit courses

1. BY right clicking the Students table selected reference option to create another Students table.
2. Named this table Female Students and filter out Gender column to Female, as well as filter credits column to Number filters to greater than or equals to 3.
3. Created a group "Support Queries" and dragged all queries which are used to formulate Female Students query.
4. Clicked close and load to then selected only create connections.
5. Right clicked Female Students connection -> load to -> Table, as well as new worksheet.
 










